Oh, yes. Hello, Doug.
Good morning, or it's good afternoon where you are. Yeah.
Thank you very much for inviting me
to this fairly exclusive club today.
Thank you for your submission.
We have five minutes with you, Doug.
Okay. There's three reasons.
There are three reasons why I think this bill
should not proceed.
One, it affects only 67 patent applications.
Two, it doesn't achieve its policy objective.
And three, it does not capture value from
intellectual property.
Of the 500,000
or so application applications that were filed under the
1953 Patents Act, there're now only 67 left,
and this bill is directed at these only 60 67.
Uh, I checked on Monday, was the last time I checked on the
iPods uh, database.
There must be some sort of di minimis rule about, uh,
how little, uh, a piece of legislation affects, uh,
secondly, it doesn't achieve the policy objective.
Uh, some, uh,
speakers in the first reading debate said it was closing a,
a loophole, uh,
but I see it as moving the goalposts that have been in place
for 70 years under the previous act.
Uh, the policy objective is to remove the uncertainty,
uh, around, uh, patent applications that are still pending.
Uh, that's true that there is some, uh,
uncertainty in remaining patent applications,
but there's uncertainty at every other stage
of every other patent application.
And more importantly, why was it thought that the last 57
or 67 out of 500,000,
that the uncertainty should be removed from them.
And then even more important is if the bill is passed,
the uncertainty will remain on the 67 applications
that are still pending
because the bill does not affect the way
that they're going to be examined.
It will only affect any further divisionals
that are filed out of those 67.
So my, my question is, what is the point
of the bill if the policy is not gonna be achieved?
Uh, and the third point is it doesn't capture value.
The 19 or the 2025 science reforms, uh, uh,
put as an important policy to change the IP settings
to better capture value from intellectual property.
This bill does nothing to capture value, uh,
and it favors third parties that might be affected
by the alleged uncertainty.
Uh, to me it reflects, uh, 30 years of policy bias, uh,
illustrated by a 2011 advice to the, uh,
commerce committee that considered the bill ended up in the
2013 Act.
And that policy advice was that patents are a cost
to New Zealand, uh, with no, uh, corresponding benefit.
Couldn't see any benefit even from New Zealand patents
that might be granted, uh, that the, uh, policy advisors
that, uh, did that have disappeared.
But I think the bias still remains, value is captured
by regarding patents as an investment is not captured by
regarding them as a cost.
So, uh, that's, or that's the third reason.
So I ask this committee recommend
that this bill goes no farther.
I'm ready to hear any questions.
That's very good. Thank you.
We have, uh, some time left members.
Are there any questions? So,
Doug, I have a question for you.
So you're saying that this bill should not proceed.
Don't you think that it's our responsibility to ensure
that our legislations, um, align internationally,
especially in this, uh, kind of area where ip, uh, uh,
laws we would like to see
that New Zealand is aligning internationally?
Well, New Zealand is aligned internationally.
The, uh, 1953 act, uh, was, was aligned.
Nobody complained about it when it was enforced.
The new one adds additional, uh, PA or requirements.
But, uh, under the old act, it was still possible, uh, when,
uh, it looked like a patent might affect somebody else
for somebody to oppose it before it was granted
and for somebody to, uh, seek
to invalidate it if they were sued for infringement.
So, and that way it is aligned.
It is just where that, uh, is carried out, whether it's done
during examination or whether it's done afterwards.
Alright, that's your views. Uh, thank you for that.
Any other questions? Uh,
there's a question from, uh, Kamila Village.
Thank you. Thank you very much for your submission
and for joining us, uh, today
and for your, um, expertise in this area.
The question I have is around, um, an element
that is in the departmental disclosure statement, which, uh,
acknowledges an aspect of retrospective
in this particular piece of legislation, which as you know,
will, is not usual within, um, bills and,
and it's not desirable.
Uh, in that departmental disclosure statement, they note
that there would be around 80 that would be affected.
Um, and I know that you've checked that there's 69, uh,
there might be, um, I don't really
understand exactly how it works.
So I just wondered, first of all, if you wanted
to comment on the retrospective element
and also just on why those numbers might
be slightly different.
Well, uh, it mean means that at the time
that the departmental report was written, they were
around 80 applications that were still pending.
Uh, I checked there, there's an online service that your
or database that you can check.
And as of Monday, that number had been reduced to 67.
What happened to the other 13? I don't know.
Uh, but they're either abandoned or they have been accepted.
Uh, and as for the respec respect retrospective of it,
that that is another element that this as as my point,
I guess, uh, why you're doing it.
But in addition to that, uh, it is retrospective legislation
and respect of, of, uh, those applications.
Thank you. Thank you. Another reason.
Thank you. Thank you for your submission.
You're welcome. Thank you.
Uh, next we have for Sharon Healthy,
is that Zoom or Yeah, that's Zoom.
Yeah.
Good afternoon.
Uh, we can't hear you.
Can you hear me? Hello?
Checking. Can you hear us now? Can you hear us?
Oh, yes, we can hear you now. So is it John and Tessa there?
Yes, yes. It's, oh, thank you so much.
Thank you for your submission. We have 10 minutes with you.
Great. Um, thank you.
Thank you Madam Chair
and members of the committee, uh,
for giving us this opportunity today to talk through, uh,
the Patents Amendment Bill.
So, uh, my name is Tessa Whittle.
I'm the head of corporate affairs here at Fisher
and Michael Healthcare, and I'm joined by
my colleague John Howard,
who is our general manager intellectual property.
We plan just to highlight a few of the key points
that we raised in our submission and then,
and then leave as much time for,
for any questions you may have.
Um, before I hand over to John to,
to talk in more detail about our submission, we just wanted
to share some introductory comments about
Fish and Park Healthcare.
So we were founded in and are headquartered in New Zealand.
Uh, we've been publicly listed since 2001.
While we're a headquartered in New Zealand,
we also operate globally.
Um, our products are sold in over 120 countries.
Um, we have more than 7,500 employees globally
based in around 50 countries at our Auckland campus.
Um, we have around 3,800 employees with about 1500
of those employed in manufacturing roles.
We are a company built on innovation and invest heavily in r
and d, uh,
and we have a global patent portfolio of more than six
and a half thousand patents and, and patent applications.
So now I'll just hand over to John to talk
through a bit more detail about our's mission.
Thank you Madam Chair and members of the committee
for this opportunity to speak
to you today about the bans amendment.
Bill f and p strongly supports the bill
and we would like to thank the government
and this parliament
for progressing such a critical issue in the IP space.
We were delighted to see the bill finally
proceeding through parliament.
The bill is addressing a critical loophole
that the current patent law framework creates loophole,
allows certain patents
to be examined under a lower standard than that set
by the patents Act 2013.
Specifically, it allows some applications
to be considered under the old 1953 act,
which does not include an event of step
during the patent examination.
If this loophole is left unaddressed, it will remain
until 2034.
As you will know, the loophole allows applicants
to file new applications
and keep patent applications pending for up
to 20 years from the date of filing
of the original patent application.
The youngest of these applications were filed in 2014.
So the bill, if the bill is not passed,
the issue will remain until 2034.
And the number of patent applications that we, we noted,
um, recently was 80.
But further divisionals can be filed from those patent
applications, multiplying
that number up significantly over time.
So we do not believe the current number
of patent applications is representative of the risk.
The loophole has meant that f
and p has spent unnecessarily an average
of a million dollars a year
opposing patent claims since the Patent Act 2013 came into
force in 2014.
In order to preserve our opposition, we have to identify
and file oppositions at IPOs to have applications examined
to the same standard as those filed under the 2013 Act
at considerable cost and distraction to our business.
If we do not detect these applications
and oppose them, it will have significant implications
for our ability to continue to manufacture in New Zealand.
If we do not oppose these patents,
they will grant without the need to be inventive.
The patent owner can then use these patents
to file a lawsuit against f
and p to stop US manufacturing in New Zealand.
The bill closes this loophole
and as such, as critical to our ability
to continue manufacturing our products
with confidence in New Zealand.
Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you today
and, uh, we are happy to take any questions.
Yeah, there is a question from Dr. David Wilson.
Um, could you explain to us the mechanism
by which you would would've to defend those old patents?
Um, we've just had information to contrary.
So at any point in time an applicant can file a divisional
application from a live application,
and the numbers that are being quoted are the current live
applications on the register.
But any point in time a new application can be filed from
those and with new claims to new inventions, uh,
new aspects of the originally filed material,
those are then prosecuted through IPOs
and presently the examination only requires them
to be novel, not to be inventive.
Unlike any patent that is, um,
examined under the 2 20 13 Act at prison,
which must be both novel
and inventive, these patents can then, uh,
once granted be used against fish and local healthcare, uh,
and are essentially invalid,
but would, uh, be effective in any, um,
preliminary injunction that was filed against f and p
and creates risk for our manufacturing.
Uh, You said that, sorry, supplementary, you said
that they would be invalid.
Could you explain that
Patent that, um, are filed under the 1953 ACT are required
to be both novel and inventive,
except the examination only requires 'em to be novel.
So, uh, if the patent were to be challenged
as we challenge them in the opposition process, uh,
they are found to be deficient.
IE they do not have an inventive step,
therefore, they're invalid.
Okay. Any more questions, members?
Looks like there are no more questions.
Uh, thank you so much for your submission.
Thank you for your time. Thank you.
Thank you. Uh, we move into private session now.
Where do we leave?